I've talked a lot on this channel about
valid reasons to not be vegan even in
developed countries how it can be hard
if not impossible for some people to
maintain a healthy vegan diet I've said
it before and I'll say it again I have
to ask my fellow vegans all the time
compared to any other social movement in
the history of the world who has
suffered less yes
rice and beans are very cheap but you
have to take into account the time it
takes to prepare them and even having
the means to prepare them not everyone
even has a kitchen it's easy to feel
sorry for yourself it's easy to feel
that your sorrow and your suffering and
your heartbreak is the most important
thing in the world that it blots
everything else out but when you compare
veganism to any other struggle for
social change the emancipation of slaves
the civil rights movements even
struggles like trying to get you know
cancer labeling on cigarettes trying to
get seatbelts in every car Mothers
Against Drunk Driving trying to change
the culture of alcohol the laws
surrounding alcohol consumption and I'm
driving trying to save lives all of
those social movements have involved
suffering amel the people involved had
some kind of spirit of self-sacrifice
and public service that is utterly
lacking in digital veganism today
because being vegetarian accomplishes
most of the good of being vegan and is
substantially easier than being vegan it
makes sense for at least a portion of
the population to stick with
vegetarianism compared to somebody in
the civil rights movement compared to
somebody in any movement for social
change even for cultural change even
compared to artists even compared to
what actors in the live theater go
through or painters painters try to
assign new and innovative merits those
people suffer too are there any valid
reason
there any good excuses for eating animal
flush yeah I think there are see it in
perspective you think you think this is
tough
well this one isn't improbable at all
for certain people living in developing
countries who essentially have no access
to like non meat nutrition they need
meat in their diets to be healthy and
even to survive it's pretty unrealistic
for us right but not impossible I've
done humanitarian work I knew what it
was like when I was in human loss I woke
up in the morning I chopped firewood
with an axe and I boiled yellow lentils
over the fire that was all ate all day
nothing literally nothing but a vitamin
pill white rice and yellow lentils and
you know doing humanitarian work I mean
it's not comfortable but I don't feel
served myself was a wonderful
opportunity I look back at it and I you
know I feel glad that I had the
opportunity to endure that and I did a
little little bit to make the world a
better place even though I did I did
suffer terribly I'm not gonna tell the
whole story but yeah sure but I mean you
know in Laos I knew people who lived in
caves and they lived in caves because
the US Army was dropping bombs in their
village the US Army was sending attack
helicopters to shoot farmers dead in
their fields and I knew one woman and
she literally went through school that
way they set up a blackboard in the cave
and she studied her lessons with chalk
and blackboard literally in a cave in
the mountains on the border between Laos
and Vietnam that was so she survived the
war there's a strange contrast from you
in my life I mean I've got a quotation
here from the Osho Chi I'm not gonna
read it out I guess but if you read this
any of this kind of literature from the
historical struggles of Communists
tremendous capacity for self-sacrifice
okay and people who knew what it was
like to live in really rough conditions
for decades because that was the
struggle okay living in a cave what have
you as long as the resources are going
to waste as long as meat and other
animal products are going to waste I
don't see any reason not to use them I'm
not a communist I'm not a communist
sympathizer but I can still wreck
those people this sense of
self-sacrifice of dedication look guys
we all just need to keep our suffering
in perspective here whether you do that
relative to the suffering of the animals
where you think hey yeah you know what
coming on YouTube and talking about my
feelings is hard is really hard it's all
I say it's hard okay but you know what
the pigs are going through every day
during their whole lives on a concrete
floor a sow that gives birth on a
concrete floor and as piglets sucking
from her tits in the car before there's
whole life in a world constructed out of
nothing but steel and concrete until one
day a human being comes along and slits
their throat and they die I mean the
death in many ways is not the worst part
of this process okay
if the lives of these animals are
constant suffering they are born just to
suffer and die okay relative to that all
of us are going through nothing but
relative to the type of suffering that
leaders and followers in every other
political program have gone through oh
and I have talked about the idea of just
using that meat even though it is going
to waste being kind of inherently
immoral I don't agree with that and I
have talked about that before -
absolutely no sense of an ethic of a
public service of self-sacrifice and I
have to ask again compared to any other
social movement who has suffered less
[Music]